if you look into our Gong Sykes has fed
and world superbike this year you
realize what a cracker of a race machine
the zx-10r is turning out to be
Tom clinched has made in Superbike title
this season with age Super Bowls nine
wins and 18 podium finishes to his name
so as I hop on to test the next best
thing
Tom's championship winning bike which is
the recently launched 2014 Kawasaki
zx-10r how feeling had my very
definition of speed is up for a radical
overhaul
kawasaki completely redesigned the
zx-10r from ground up in 2011 making it
a whole 9 kgs lighter than the previous
version and it's angular bodywork
compact tail section an instrument panel
comes straight out of the aries machines
IQ that the sharp line beam headlights
LED parking light and mirror integrated
turn signals and you find yourself
staring straight down what is arguably
the hottest looking direction is
as menacing as it looks the bike is
quite comfortable especially for a Super
Sport am i disgraced cut no doubt but
the compactor goes mean it's a lot
lighter on your wrists and your back it
can be comfortable still because of the
adjustable foot packs and when you
finally set rolling the first thing you
notice is how smooth the engineers with
the secondary balancer shaft smoothening
out all the edges
this is the most powerful zx-10r today
because the meat of the power is
delivered at 8,000 rpm and the motor was
truly ballistic another conclusion
appears later
but I loved or fell in love with was
extract ability and the on-off circle
transitions they are seamless but if you
still feel that riding a 200 PS machine
on the street it's like sitting on an
arm missile well you have three power
modes at your disposal and these can be
changed on the fly
the slick 6p transmission 2 is a little
on the taller side to maintain the same
linear power delivery across the power
back
most apparent advantage of having such a
controllable power delivery is when you
hit the corners
the engine braking tube is a lot
smoother providing really good stability
at corner entry and with the safety net
of Kawasaki's brilliant traction control
I will never felt more confident
attacking corners on a leader class bike
working in conjunction with the traction
control is the Kawasaki intelligent
braking system which is the first of its
kind on our production motorcycle which
uses information from the wheel sensors
as well as the main ECU to determine how
much and when to intervene at each wheel
and I like the system but what left me
wanting was the braking on this bike in
general the rear back especially has
almost zero initial bite the front brake
though is is really good in terms of
feel and feedback and it's very
progressive as well but what it can do
with is initial bite upfront
the new electronic steering damper that
increases damping force not only as the
speed goes up but also based on the
acceleration and deceleration
when it comes to handling the show our
big Christian folks ensure smooth
damping and they prevent front-end dive
you and a hard heart breaking the rare
show our shop is impressive as well
soaking in bumps beautifully on the road
and is completely customizable because
you can fiddle around with the
compression with a preload as well as
the rebound and then when you add the
completely revised chassis geometry to
the mix how Willinger which has almost
intuitive handling acoustics
so to summarize what distinguishes the
2014 Kawasaki zx-10r from its
competitors is its linear power delivery
it's easy to live with stance and its
advanced electronics package it works
with the rider giving him or her more
control to get the most out of the bike
while transparently keeping the bike in
check Kawasaki I think they have a
winner on their hands because they
extend because it is arguably the best
Japanese liter class sport bike which
you can buy today and with a 15 point 7
lakh ex-showroom price tag it is also
the most affordable
you